Egypt's President Abdul fat Ali has
arrived in toia after more than a decade
of tense
relations warmly welcomed by President
reab t erogan with both aiming to open a
new chapter in
relations after a three-hour meeting the
P agreed to deepen cooperation in trade
security and
energy with the joint statement we aim
to strengthen our cooperation further in
several fields from the health sector to
energy tourism to education nuclear
energy and natural gas we are determined
to increase our trade volume to15
billion CC echoed erdogan's positive
messages of a new
beginning we have a common goal of
increasing the trade between our
countries it is also clear that
coordination between turke and Egypt is
essential for resolving Regional
issues relations between Egypt turkey
deteriorated after Egypt's first
democratically elected president
Muhammad M was deposed by a military
crew led by CCE in
2013 the rift deepened over their
opposing approaches in Libya the Horn of
Africa and the Eastern
Mediterranean but after extensive
diplomatic for Force since 2021
president Aran wasited kairo early this
year to heal the rift the announcement
of the restoration of relations didn't
come as a surprise both countries are
battering an economic crisis and facing
common geopolitical challenges they hope
their approachment will boost trade
relations and help them contain
conflicts in a turbulent region Israel's
war on Gaza is a major factor pushing
KIRO and Ankara towards normalizing
their ties ardogan and CCE promis to
coordinate more humanitarian Aid to
Palestinians in Gaza but despite the
economic and security pressures that
have brought them together the Rivalry
between the two countries is far from
over ruser Al jazer
Ankara make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer